.\" Originally written by Jan Schaumann <jschauma@netmeister.org> in March 2022.
.Dd March 04, 2022
.Dt repeat 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm repeat
.Nd execute the given command repeatedly
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dhv
.Op Fl J Ar replstr
.Op Fl n Ar num
.Op Fl s Ar sleep
.Ar command Op Ar argument ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
invokes the given command, over and over,
forever or a given number of times.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width j_replstr_
.It Fl J Ar replstr
When constructing the command to execute, replace the
occurence of
.Ar replstr
with the integer representing the number of invocation
performed.
.It Fl d
Don't wait for the command to complete before invoking
it again.
Passing this flag also sets
.Fl s
to zero.
.It Fl h
Display help and exit.
.It Fl n Ar num
Only repeat the given command
.Ar num
times.
.It Fl s Ar sleep
Sleep for
.Ar sleep
seconds in between invocations.
.Pp
If not specified,
.Nm
will repeat the given command as quickly as possible.
.Pp
Setting this option also disables
.Fl d .
.It Fl v
Verbose mode: prefix the output of each invocation of
the given command with a zero-padded number of the
iteration ("<n>: <output>").
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples illustrate common usage of this tool.
.Pp
To run the
.Xr date 1
command 30 times in succession in one-minute
intervals:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
repeat -n 30 -s 60 date
.Ed
.Pp
In order to repeat complex commands including e.g.,
I/O redirection and pipelines, you can pass a
.Xr sh 1
command to
.Nm .
For example, to continuously count the number of files
in the current directory:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
repeat /bin/sh -c "ls | wc -l"
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm
will repeatedly invoke the given
.Ar utility
with any subsequent arguments.
If the
.Fl J
flag is specified, then the given
.Ar replstr
in any of the arguments (including the utility itself)
will be replaced with the number of the invocation.
.Pp
Since I/O redirection is processed by the invoking
shell, you'd have to invoke a new shell to allow for
redirection to e.g. a per-invocation output file.
.Pp
For example, to redirect input and output of 10
repeated invocations:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
repeat -n 10 -J % /bin/sh -c "<%.in command >%.out"
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
command exits with the exit status of the last command
it invoked.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jot 1 ,
.Xr seq 1 ,
.Xr xargs 1 ,
.Xr yes 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in March 2022.
.Sh BUGS
Please file bugs and feature requests by emailing the author.
